Aeroya Glorie
Tanner Keen
Tess Polishname
Opening, character scenes

Small town, 8 buildings
    Church, Bathhouse, Market, Pub/inn, smithy, 3 houses in a small cluster
        3 Houses are player houses filled with whatever NPCs they know/live with
        Smith: Nate Winchaw, mid 50s widow, never remarried. Lives alone. Weapons he crafts rarely break and dull very slowly. Mild control over earth. 19 year old son, Jogan, went missing 8 months ago. 
        Market (First Stop): Family owned for two generations, general goods shipped in from other towns. Beck Nausram is owner, mid forties man with no discernable powers, aided by two sons (Pete, 11; Jackie 7) and one daughter (Marnie, 14). Wife Kylie is infirmed, hasn’t been able to leave bed in 4 years.
        Pub/inn (Green Thumb): Ashna Majone, young 20s runs with her late 20s wife Paraine Ai. Wanderers who settled into town two years ago after eloping. Run a community garden together, each with their own plant-based powers. Ashna has an absurdly green thumb, while Paraine can control water and sense storms. 
            Currently housing single occupant, has been around for <1 week. Tracker from four towns over, doesn’t speak to others much. Late 30s male, Noy. Born with mutated splotches over his body, can track mutated creatures. Works as a bounty hunter for dangerous mutant outbreaks.

Discussion with Ashna, Paraine, or Beck gives players word from nearby farms that there have been attacks on crops in the night
    Inn traffic has been low this season, travellers have been scared off the roads by ghost stories, or so Paraine says. Ashna thinks it’s just a slow year, isn’t superstitious.

Nell character scene having nightmare of what happened with them and jogan, similar to how Nell did with haze (lipz-esque)
    Have Nell set up, maybe in a cave?
    Force a separation at some point
    Make Nell roll to see if dream stayed repressed

Noy approaches Aeroya about their thoughts, initially suspicious that they killed Jogan
    If dream is not well repressed, highly possible for Noy to already have significant details of Jogan’s demise

Jackie runs into town screaming for help

Corvin Hewell, traveling merchant, collapses at the town gate, barely supported by Marnie and Pete. 
    Seems like he was attacked by beasts, warns everyone against the wilderness
    Taken to inn under Paraine’s care, possibly a player’s house’
    Noy hovers around outskirts of commotion, looks for moment to speak with Corvin under his breath.

Town meeting is called to discuss the threat, total of 10 people max, 3 of them children
    Many townspeople are scared, arguing over recent word from other farms and towns. Corvin is quiet for the majority of discussion, then speaks up to say “I know what I saw...and it ain’t normal. Beasts took down my horse in no time flat. Not like no wolves.”
    Nate gets frustrated and irate, slams fist and claims it’s the same things that got a hold of Jogan. 

Players have opportunity to find out that there was a recent disappearance from the parish, a teenage boy, the son of a local farmer, disappeared 8 months prior 
    Suspected of similar dog attack

Players convene and decide to intervene in order to defend the town
    Noy asks for hands to go hunting
        Nate volunteers, so does Paraine.

Players go out into woods, find mildly monstrous tracks, decide to follow

Woods thicken, damage to foliage increases and begins to look like thrashing/rabid action, more tracks indicate multiple animals

Attacked by two mutated wild dogs on the way
    What is the mutation?

Tracks lead to abandoned overgrown railway station, windows boarded up and door missing
    Final confrontation location?

Possible player paths
    Stake out location
        Witness mutated animals coming and going from the station (dogs, racoons, maybe a bear?)
        Sometimes carrying things, food or shiny objects, raw materials
            Looks like they’re stockpiling or preparing to build something
    Enter building right away
        Scuttling noises around them, dark corridors and empty rooms. Heaps of raw materials, organic matter, food, etc. 
        Step into train bay
        Players encounter hunched form, possibly consuming something?
        Person recognizes them, turns around and begins babbling nonsense at them
        Nate recognizes Jogan, screams for him.
        Jogan looks right through Nate, continuing to babble at him incoherently. 
        Nate steps towards Jogan, weeping and begging him to listen, to understand. Before he can get too close, Noy holds an arm out to stop him. They argue for a moment, Noy points to Jogans left arm which is festering and swollen, screaming about mutations and insanity.
        Snarling noises grow surrounding the players, Jogan’s expression turns to rage, he screeches at the party and lunges
        After a short scuffle, or until Jogan is injured, Jogan runs out of the train station and along the tracks

Party Crossroads
    Nate immediately chases after him
    Rest of party is likely not so immediate in their chase
        Inquisition of Noy to see what he knows
            Bounty hunter, fire is the best way to kill those who have succumbed to the mutation
            Players will likely search for a way to save Jogan, I should offer it to them. Maybe Paraine is the possible answer?
            If players look for cure, Noy can inform them that mutation insanity is reversible before a certain point, but very difficult and dangerous and requires a healer. 
    Courses of action:
        Capture Jogan
            Once restrained by Nate, Paraine will reveal that she used to work as a healer if she has not done so already. It’s been years, and she moved to the middle of nowhere for a reason, but she can’t let him be killed by his own father.
            If party returns him successfully to the town, Beck will provide the necessary materials for Paraine to heal Jogan. 
            Much screaming and restraining later, plus an arm amputation, Jogan will be brought back from the brink of insanity, somewhat of a shell of his former self, scarring leading from his arm stump across his chest/back and up his face. 
            Noy disappears, leaving the party with a few answers and many questions. 
        Kill Jogan
            Jesus guys...what the fuck
            Nate descends into isolation and insanity
            Paraine and Ashna move away






Pros
Char creation feels good, actionable and easy to jump in
Narrative world really good
Cons
PvP mechanics need definition
Modifiers feel convoluted, too many
Character advancement feels too complicated, partly due to modifiers
No exp mechanics
Give mechanical incentive for characters to do what you want them to do
Need to flesh out social/non-combat moves


Improvements
Drawbacks + advantages
Setting premise can be shared by what moves are available to you
Mechanics around fear of becoming a monster
Research Burning wheel for progression mechanics
Capes Cowls and Villains Fowl power freedom
Adam Cobal





